---
title: Send your comments and letters to the Coup's AI chatbot
date: 2025-03-16
source: Wired
isBasedOn: Inside Elon Musk’s ‘Digital Coup’
link: https://www.wired.com/story/elon-musk-digital-coup-doge-data-ai/
tags:
  - coup
  - AI
  - wired
  - musk
  - doge
  - gsa
  - GSAi
  - schumer
---
The excellent reporting in [this Wired piece](https://www.wired.com/story/elon-musk-digital-coup-doge-data-ai/) is so god damn killer, its gotten me mad -- it's so incredibly good in telling what the chaos means and how to understand it. The end game here is for Musk to plunder the government so completely that to rebuild it, he'll say AI must take over all of it to restore it. That AI of course would be his xAI. Like many things Musk has personally built, Boring Company, Telsa's Cybertruck, or SpaceX last two rockets, it's going to be shit.

> On March 7, DOGE got one of the things it seemed to want most from GSA: a chatbot that could automate work previously done by federal employees. The tool rolled out to some 1,500 employees at GSA, with an agency wide launch planned a week later. An internal memo about the tool touted the “endless” tasks it could help with: “draft emails, create talking points, summarize text, write code.” The memo hinted at the dangers of deploying chatbots at the federal level, warning workers not to “type or paste” internal or personally identifiable information as inputs.
> 
> People who used it weren’t impressed. “It’s about as good as an intern,” one GSA employee [told WIRED](https://www.wired.com/story/gsai-chatbot-1500-federal-workers/). “Generic and guessable answers.” This version of GSAi almost certainly couldn’t interact with the EDS discovery layer first proposed by engineers. More likely it was just the first step in an iterative approach. As one official said in the February meeting about the project, the first goal could be to “deliver this sort of janky, doesn’t-work-all-the-time chatbot” to pave the way for a “turbo-charged” version down the line.

That turbo-charged AI bog is never going to come to be. The so-called "Department of Government Efficiency" Musk installed is really a criminal organization with Musk as a paper thug. They think of themselves as pirates of the 1980's Apple days. But they're simply a bunch of criminals with laptops doing utterly brazenly corrupt and illegal things. Notably when the Coup was underway, they used their new hijacked comms via GSA seizure to lock out employees: 

> As would happen at agencies across the government, the GSA seizure took place in the shadows—a matter not of announcements but of calendar invitations from unknown people, of unfamiliar names appearing in internal directories. The sixth and seventh floors, which had offices and suites used by the administrator, the “A-suite,” were restricted and largely locked down. No longer could employees simply badge in through the turnstile. Now they had to pass through metal detectors and have their belongings x-rayed

And the Republicans! They are so busy trying to find ways to eliminate Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid for the tax cuts they promised to their wealthy friends and favorite big companies. It's no surprise they are all kind of shocked how angry their constituents are. As it turns out, a lot federal workers and offices and jobs are in Republican districts and states. 

Yet, I must highlight, they are *letting* an insider threat thrive inside the very government they swore to run. None of them seem to care what is happening. They are responsible for ushering in the end of American democracy. 

Lastly, what's maddening is Senator Schumer decided to throw his hands up and allow the Republicans to cede power to the Musk and Trump through giving the Republicans votes on the Continuing Resolution.

Go read the great piece at Wired. It so good.



  